The exercise directed you to identify the organizational model best suited for
the data science organization a business might need in order
to deliver on the roadmap completed in the last lesson.
The organizational model most suited for the early days of
this business's data science journey is
a federated functional area lead data science organization.
The two highest value projects to start with demand forecasting and
supply chain optimization are both procurement and supply chain projects.
Starting the data science journey with
a functional data science model will allow the focus necessary to gain traction.
As data science projects gain traction,
I would evolve the functional federated organization to
a more centralized federated model with strategic and operational responsibility,
resting with the chief data officer and functional areas and
business units managing data assets and data
science initiatives under strong central guidance.